and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actionable
B2B marketing website and SEO tips
useful podcasts goodies and more you can
give it a shot over at businessgrowth
dot email
so join me today Arthur Castillo Arthur
is the head of dark social and
evangelism over at chili Piper Arthur
welcome to the show how we doing man
Good Sam this is uh this is an honor I
know how many awesome guests you had so
to be considered amongst them and
sharing with you this is gonna be great
you are very very welcome sir and you
know the show you know we don't mess
around we dive straight into topics no
fluff
first and foremost Arthur what the
flipping heck is a B2B evangelist yes uh
a great great place to start and I'm
thinking we could even go back to in a
way I I almost picture myself doing this
role before it's um well before I I have
this title now but I I've kind of taken
this approach with me from where I
started off in sales
um
and then I always tried to place myself
in the shoes of the buyer but really
understanding it from like a business
perspective so right what is it that
um how do they make Revenue right what
is their business model first and
foremost what are some of the blockers
to that them getting more Revenue
whether it's the the state of the
industry who are the people that they
listen to that when they come out with
um a podcast or a blog post whatever it
is they tend to to really be heard by by
the audience and that's the approach I'd
always take in sales like before even
really learning to to master what I'm
selling I really wanted to get myself in
in my buyer situation so
taking that approach across
um really industries that I I had no
business selling into so the first was
real estate Tech never owned a house
never did anything so we really had to
dive into that then it became automotive
tech and selling to car dealers and um
before chili piper then it was selling
to dentists so all of those Industries
had no idea what
um really any background in it but from
the point of how I approached it which
is like coming to understand my buyers I
noticed that the conversations that
maybe I was having compared to other
sales reps were more on the trusted
advisor level where they came to realize
quickly like hey this person is pretty
ingrained in our industry knows what's
going on follows the same people I do
and it just really shifted the mindset
of what those conversations were all
about it wasn't hey I have a product or
service that I'm trying to sell you is
hey I'm trying to understand your
situation oh by the way I think there's
a way that we can help based on me
understanding your situation
um so I've always approached sales in
that sense and it must have been a
little evident to our marketing team
here at chili Piper in that um
they at first it started off with a
coffee chat and from there with our
former director of demand gen Kaylee
Edmondson and she must have realized
like what I was already doing in terms
of LinkedIn and getting involved in
communities
um I know we we left that call
her asking the VP of sales for 10 to 20
of my time and then it basically turned
out to be a full-on recruiting effort
um so start off in field marketing and
building that team from scratch and I
think now how I'm approaching
um the head of dark social and
evangelism comes a lot from
how I approach sales how I built the the
field marketing department and now
um trying to put customers at the center
of that so
to answer your question in long-winded
way Sam
um what the heck is a B2B evangelist at
least how I pitched how I look at my
role as the the dark social piece which
is how do we create that shareable
content that's either educational or
entertaining that's going to be
circulated amongst your buyer groups and
then the evangelism piece to me is
um and we can get into how I I kind of
bucket different
um
I guess groups of evangelism but getting
those buckets uh whether it's Partners
communities customers to really
evangelize and sing our Praises I think
our best sales reps are our customers so
how do we start creating content with
them getting them involved in the sales
process so that
the peers that are evaluating chili
Piper
um I think what customers have is
something that sales and marketing very
rarely has if ever which is we can speak
to the what which is the product we can
speak to the why which is the the
problem we're trying to solve in the
market but very rarely can we speak to
the how how I use it day to day how it
integrates with my tech stack let me
show and tell you
um screen share what I'm doing day in
and day out in in that specific tool so
that's the Gap I think customers feel
really well and I'm starting to believe
more and more that that's how people
want to buy they want to buy from their
peers and they really want to understand
the how I think um the what and the why
could be Illustrated through things like
your website but I think you want to get
a peek behind the curtain and really
understand how it's being used in the
day-to-day
got it a lot to break down there sir but
appreciate the intro for anyone that's
not heard of dark social before what
would be your explanation of it Arthur
think to in a marketing sense it's a
little bit of a Rebrand I think the
easiest way to understand it is
it's it's word of mouth but the
difference is I think the frequency at
which it exists and how we have access
to our peers so even something like
LinkedIn which I know we're streaming
live to
five ten years ago it was pretty much a
digital resume you're only logging in if
you're looking for a new job and now I I
know for myself it's how I I learn a lot
about what's going on in the industry I
follow some people that create really
compelling content
um and I'm educating myself and on top
of that I'm getting to message people
one-to-one and saying hey that was
really interesting or hey what led you
to to lead to this insight and take
action on it
um and I think buyers are now
in the past maybe it was a couple annual
conferences that they would get together
in a room of their peers and say hey
what's going on now the frequency at
which it exists in the channels that we
have whether it's social media or
communities it can happen on a daily
basis
um so that's it's scaled word of mouth I
think the dark part is
um every marketer wants to know where
the attribution was created where the
band was created but most marketing
attribution software will tell you that
hey they came in direct or organic but
really the the dark pieces what happened
before that was it me and say I'm having
a chat at a conference that you can't
get insight to was it somebody in the
LinkedIn comment saying hey you should
check out this this uh this tool and I
type it into Google and I go about doing
that right so I think it's scaled Word
of Mouth combined with the inability to
see where the demand was actually
generated nice one so you dropped a few
points at the start of the chat author
talking about evangelism and letting
your customers sell for you and I really
like the sound of that not something
we've chatted a great deal about on the
show at least recently
um and before that as well you mentioned
something interesting that you became
kind of a in your sales roles before you
took up this role you're aiming to be a
trusted advisor which naturally in B2B
when you're selling products that aren't
transactional that have got a longer
sales cycle trust is so important right
like without that it's nothing nothing's
gonna happen
um probably not going to even get a call
with a prospect without a basic level of
trust and then when someone's shipping
across to you thousands of dollars
hundreds of thousands of dollars a year
um it's one of the key foundations that
marketing and sales need to get Revenue
over the line now let's talk about
evangelism customers selling for you you
mentioned that people want to know the
how let's dive a bit deeper into that
part and what what does that really
entail customers saying for us what are
you offering there or talking about
yeah
um I'll break it down from like maybe a
traditional top of funnel and and bottom
of funnel approach and how we're looking
at it here so
top of funnel
um
it's creating content with these
customers and it can be kind of both in
two parts one it can be either maybe
things that they're experts at that you
know Their audience
um really wants to hear about or or kind
of using their expertise to blast it out
to our audience and the things that they
might be interested whether it's how to
create a high converting
uh conversion Pages or whether it's how
to create a a better outbound system
um and an outbound go to market Playbook
I'm also looking at it from the
perspective of what we just talked about
the how so we are doing customer-led
webinars where it's a little bit of a
show and tell right where we kind of go
through the traditional customer story
of okay walk us through where you're at
when you first we're we're recognizing
that hey this is a problem you need to
act on what were some of the things you
tried and the the part where I think
peers want to see more and more is the
how so actually going through a screen
share hey this is how it's set up
um this is how the approach we've taken
this is what we've tested in the past
and at the end really just creating like
an AMA for customers to ask this
specific power user hey yeah how did you
go about doing that specific piece or
how long did it take you to implement
that or how come you're doing it this
way instead of that way so really
creating an environment where it's the
customer leading kind of the webinar and
they're breaking down their buyer's
Journey what they've done and how um the
results they've had and how they've come
to actually design that day in and day
out
that's from the content perspective
and then the uh the top of funnel right
creating content with them
um ideally it's something that they're
worth uh it's worth sharing to their
Network because I think it's one thing
for us to publish it on our website or
our social pages but a whole other level
of if they're actually taking pride in
it and saying hey check out what I just
did with chili Piper and they're posting
it natively on on their socials
the bottom of funnel piece
um Works hand in hand with I think our
partner rev share
so there's a couple ways in which we're
going about doing this
um and we
we
um
give
back to our customers if they're helping
us either break into net new Target
accounts or they're helping us influence
deals that are already evaluating chili
Piper so one way in which we're doing
that is actually funneling a spreadsheet
of open opportunities
um amongst some of our Champions and
saying hey do you know anybody at these
companies that are these are at they're
actively evaluating chili Piper yeah
um maybe you know somebody there maybe
it's like their best friend that's in
rev Ops and like holy crap I had no idea
yeah let me mention them and tell them
that I use this day in and day out and
it's an amazing tool
um so that's how we're kind of looking
at and I'm trying to combine both of
them we haven't uh done this yet but
almost creating like affiliate landing
pages where we can house the content
that we've done with these customers
and on top of that if they were to take
an action or book a demo we have um a
partner ref share tool that actually
tracks that all the way through close
one Revenue
so that can be shareable I'm thinking
more on a one-to-one basis versus them
just posting and saying hey look at all
the stuff I've done with chili Piper
although I'm sure some will but I think
it's more of the hey notice you're
checking out chili Piper hey
um I work pretty closely with the chili
Piper team and and they seem to think
you'd be a good fit check out some of
the content that I've done with them and
then helping us break into those
accounts so that's how I'm kind of
looking at it from a top of funnel
approach and then getting them more
involved in the bottom of funnel deals
yeah that's interesting I've not heard
of
something that quite that opened before
where you have literally like a list of
these are the accounts that we're
working at the moment we're trying to
break into or we've got a baseline
relationship with and then introducing
those to existing customers and saying
look are any of these kind of potential
referrals and they can share the perhaps
content that you've produced together
and obviously if it's coming straight
from referral those are some of the best
intros that you can get
um and it's going to seriously influence
that the chance of you winning that deal
so that's quite a interesting and
transparent approach that I've not
really seen much in action to be fair
yeah it's it's something that
um I think we've probably seen it more
in the b2c side right the whole
influencer marketing campaigns and
I think the difference with that is it's
very transactional and a lot of the time
they're not they're almost using their
brand and monetizing and not putting
their reputation at stake whereas I
think that's the biggest difference in
B2B where
buyers if they're recommending a product
that's not going to do the job now all
of a sudden they're they're professional
reputation is on the line so I think
it's one identifying those that truly
believe in what you're doing and have
seen the results and the problems that
it solves and yeah they're already
probably singing your Praises so in a
way how do you amplify that and create
the environment so that you can create
content with them or they have ways to
to get in on the upside of hey if I'm
already referring these to other
directors of demand gen or heads of rev
Ops how do I kind of get a little bit of
a cut out of that so it is a pretty
novel approach and
um it seems to be pretty working pretty
well for us yeah and would you say those
are the main use cases of customer
evangelists kind of creating content
together looking for referrals
um is there any others that companies
should consider
I think so I think like I just tried to
bucket in like that top of funnel place
of okay because what we're finding even
with some of the influences we're
working with of course they have a huge
network but they don't really want to be
an SDR right they don't really want to
help you break into account so that's
when I noticed and and I heard from our
our customers and champions that
hey I think it's a lot easier to help
influence deals or unidentify people
that are already
um checking out your product and maybe
if I know them that's easy for me to say
hey I heard I heard you're checking out
chili Piper um yeah I've actually worked
with them in the past in some cases I've
implemented them three different times
at different companies
um so always happy to chat and here's
some of the content that I've used I'm
not sure if there's anything outside of
that whether like you're creating
content with them that's how people want
to get educated they're learning from
their peers and then they're kind of
helping us in those bottom of funnel
deals whether it's breaking into net new
accounts or or influencing them but yeah
I don't know if you have any other ideas
Sam I'm all ears of how to how to
improve this evangelism program no no I
mean if you're correct that content
anyway naturally that can be used across
paid so if you're doing like LinkedIn
ads and you're serving out content of
your customers literally talking about
use cases of your offer of your product
Your solution how it's helped them fix
their problem how it's helped them
improve certain results and all this
good stuff then naturally if you're
getting that in front of Ideal clients
on channels like LinkedIn with paid
distribution that's gonna going to be
pretty impactful
um when you're serving that to perhaps
people that have visited your website
already or that fit your target market
that's going to be helpful as well as
the other the other fronts that we've
talked about so that's cool now
moving forwards what are some of the use
cases when it comes to events and
communities and perhaps we can break
this down into about how how you get
involved and how you see B2B evangelists
getting involved in on the event side
and on the community side yeah so on the
event side
um this was pretty interesting too in
working with communities when we first
started
um
or I guess when I when I first came into
marketing I think communities were
really taking off it seemed like
everybody wanted to create their own
Community it was the flavor of the month
and at the time we felt that our
audience wasn't necessarily
large enough for us to go off and do our
own thing so we sponsored a lot of these
communities to in a way rent Their
audience right
um they helped with the distribution
they helped up putting the events they
they had an ear to the market of like
what was our community talking about and
maybe we could create content around
that
um so that gave us a pretty good idea of
one I guess the Baseline of how to work
with some of these Community Partners
during that time some of them offered
these executive level dinners
and
we thought it was going to be a great
idea right an intimate setting where you
can get in front of our ICP
the trouble was that some of them didn't
necessarily deliver either the attendees
that we wanted or even from like a
numbers perspective
um how many people were attending these
dinners
and at the time my boss and I were
thinking look
what if we actually put these dinners on
ourselves we don't have to make money
off of them because that's not our
business model and whatever money we we
recoup in terms of sponsorship Revenue
we put directly into the event and we we
partner up with companies that Target a
similar ICP similar type of account as
us and we just go to market with them
um so it was actually like learning
through our customers Community
sponsorships that led us to really
double down on these in-person executive
dinners and that's been a huge part of
our our field marketing program
and one of the first aha moments that we
had we always wanted to invite customers
um to these executive dinners where they
could kind of speak on behalf of us and
yeah get them in a room full of
prospects
but it was amazing when I first
witnessed it
um happened right in front of me so I'll
leave names out of here but it was funny
a sales rep
um had mentioned to me we were trying to
get sales to get to invite um their
prospects to these dinners and that was
a a slow slow moving
um
objective at first but there was this
one sales rep that said look there's
this deal
um the the co-founder is based in San
Francisco
I haven't been able to get it unstuck
for the past month or two do you think
it'd be a good idea to invite them to
this dinner I said yeah why not let's
see what happens
and one of our customers we were just um
networking there having a drink
and the topic of chili Piper came up she
talked about how she used it and she
said in like three sentences and his
co-founder was like oh it's a no-brainer
after she said those three sentences and
I think three weeks later the deal
closed and this rep was like oh my God
this is amazing now he's like telling
all the other sales reps you got to
start inviting your prospects to these
dinners
um it worked wonders for me so that was
pretty cool to I wish I like recorded
those three sentences but I think the
difference is what we what we talked
about earlier is the how right she knew
exactly how she was using it day to day
she knew probably the co-founders world
and what they're trying to do and after
these three sentences it became so
Crystal Clear and it was from a
technically an unbiased Source where if
it was coming from me he said yeah of
course you're going to say that right
you're always trying to to prop up your
product so that um was kind of the first
type of event that we had our customers
join our prospects to these executive
level dinners now we're actually we're
kind of maybe a little early to in
person we're still doing a ton of those
but now I'm looking at some of these
customer-led events um more on the
virtual stage but I'd say that was a
pretty big part on the event side of
inviting our customers to these
in-person dinners and getting them to
interact with their peers face to face
yeah yeah that's that's an interesting
one and I suppose if you've got
customers that are on site to join then
that's gonna be super impactful
especially if they're able to to sing
your praises and you're able to invite
those Target clients that are perhaps
close to doing some business with you
and get those conversations fired up so
that's yeah it's a nice little nice
little idea
um what about on the community side of
things I know you touched about on it I
just know Arthur I know you mentioned
that you know you can look to sponsor
and almost rent land when it comes to
community so if I don't know one that
comes to mind is perhaps rev genius but
I know there's tons like Pavilion and
there's tons of others depending on what
type of audience you want whether that's
kind of sales reps Revenue leaders
directors Etc and and you can pay to
sponsor webinars or get a post in their
emails or all that kind of good stuff
um
because it's a bit of a funny one
communities in terms of kind of is there
any examples of what you think work well
um or any kind of recommendations that
you have from your own experience when
it comes to actually using those to
drive revenue for B2B organizations
yeah
um and it's funny because at times I've
thought to myself like oh man our
community is going to hate me all of a
sudden but I think it's trying to
improve the relationship to between both
of them and I think also given where we
were at as a company when we're still
kind of growing and scaling
um
it made a ton of sense for us so I can't
necessarily give blanket advice of like
hey either do this or don't do this I'll
only speak from experience so I think at
the time it served a purpose
um we got familiar across a bunch of
these communities we've tried sponsoring
a bunch of them and they typically are
pretty
like hey here's the the sponsorship
package you receive when you approach
them what we realized was that I think
some of our best community sponsorships
went a little outside of that standard
package that they would give us
and we could kind of shape and mold a
little bit or even bring them into our
initiatives and a great example of that
was these in-person dinners
um obviously the the communities that we
were working with in the past that did
these executive dinners they weren't as
much of a fan of this but some of these
communities that were strictly digital
we almost approached them and said hey
think of this as an extension of your
online community like we're going to be
throwing a ton of these in-person events
and if you want to invite your members
to it in some cases we actually even put
that in the contract where it was like a
almost a mandate of hey you're gonna
help us fill some of these dinners which
allowed us to get the ball rolling kind
of our on our own in-person events
community so
um that's something that I would suggest
to others kind of understand shirt they
might give you a standard package but
how do you bring them into the
initiatives that you're already doing or
how do you really use
their understanding of the community in
terms of the topic that are are being
spoken about
um trending topics anything that's being
mentioned quite a bit and creating
content around that I think a lot of
companies see this as hey I cut you a
check to community now I get to
basically demo my product at scale in
front of your thousand members but
people join communities to learn from
one another and I think if you can try
and identify who maybe your customer
Champions are within these communities
and do events with them so it seems a
little bit more Grassroots it came from
the community and it just so happens
that chili Piper sponsored this one in
particular
um that would be my tips in terms of
like not necessarily just going for the
standard sponsorship package that the
community is offering you yeah trying to
work in some of your own initiatives or
position it in a way of like hey we're
working on this and we think it actually
would be a value add to your community
how do you think about combining those
two things yeah yeah
um no I appreciate the tips and in terms
of chili Piper I know you guys have got
your own podcast
um and like you say you do various
different events and things like that
have you not ever considered trying to
start your own in terms of I don't know
when I say because in my mind for some
reason when I think communities and of
course there's so much more to it but I
think of like massive slack groups or
Discord groups or things like that
um but do you think that's just too much
of a mammoth task was the amount that
there are in the kind of B2B Revenue
space to actually build a significant
one with your own audience is that just
too much time and effort when there's
ones out there that you can effectively
advertise on or sponsor on and tap in as
you need
that's exactly where um my my former
boss he was put in that position when he
was first brought into chili Piper so at
the time it was yeah communities the
flavor of the month how do we set up our
own community and he actually pushed
back saying look I think everybody's
going to be trying to do this there's
going to be way too much noise there's
enough communities out there that we can
partner with and sort of take this
cross-community evangelism play where
we're playing nice with all these in
some cases we're bringing these
Community leaders together I know we've
even offered to pay member dues if like
maybe they invited certain members to
our dinners and we would share the list
with them and say hey any of these
people you would want them to be part of
your community and we would offer to pay
for their sponsorship
um so part of me wants to say there's
there's a lot of noise
I think it also if you look at the
timing of it these communities got huge
during the pandemic right where we
couldn't meet people face to face and it
was like yeah let's connect with people
online
um on the other side of it maybe there's
I'm sure there's like still many active
communities but some of the ones that
I'm a part of seem to have died down a
bit in terms of Engagement so
I don't know I think it goes back to
like understand what's the purpose is it
just to create a community because
everybody else is is it to maybe bring
together power users so they can
actually share playbooks and tips of how
they use your tool then yeah I'm
probably in favor of something like that
and I know on some level we kind of use
our customer Advisory board for that
almost like a mini community and we've
actually divided ours into five
different groups instead of the
traditional One customer Advisory Board
um based on Persona so that people are
actually engaging with their peers so I
think there's an opportunity for that in
terms of the showcasing of the how and
maybe getting commute customers to talk
to each other but in terms of just
creating um
a larger slack Community I think it is a
pretty big doing you probably need a
couple of head counts to make sure that
it's successful and it's not one of
those things that if it's like you build
it they will come you really have to put
a lot into these communities
um in order for people to to continue to
show up and I think some of the best
communities what I've realized they've
done is
I'm going to steal um this
this uh word from Alice so from
cognizant the CMO over there where she
called it value Loop marketing right and
the way I kind of understood that is
like it's something some sort of event
or
um something that takes place
consistently that your audience or your
buyers show up to consistently and they
want to go to that so whether it's like
maybe a a morning sales call with other
sales leaders where you're talking about
what's top of mind or it's some sort of
Round Table that like you can share and
tell what projects you're working on get
valuable feedback I think those are the
most
engaging valuable communities where
you're showing up time and time again
um
I mean refined Labs comes to mind too
right of their demand gen live and now
they have Revenue vitals these are
weekly types of events that the
community shows up to time and time
again I'm sure they have a ton of repeat
visitors it's not like a one and done
thing it's pretty episodic serialized
that to me seems to be the key to really
engaging
um and creating a compelling Community
if you have some sort of value Loop
marketing some sort of uh continuous
event that people get value out of that
they'll show up to weekly or monthly or
whatever it is
um yeah yeah it's a nice term and that's
not many of those that come to mind like
you say Chris Walker's ones
pretty well known but apart from those
couple examples like I can't think of
any that have been that impactful in
terms of webinars that are weekly that
are so successful but at the same time
actually really give
solid B2B advice and to people's
questions and then repurpose for
podcasts YouTube Etc
um I think there still is a bit of a gap
in that market for sure
um but with that said
B2B evangelism
um we've touched on some of it but
nowadays like we talked about a little
bit
um some B2B marketers don't necessarily
need to be to be marked as B2B sellers
B2B entrepreneurs getting paid literally
just to do link LinkedIn posts
um by Brands because they've got such a
big reach
um they know they can do a post gets a
few thousand engagements just from
organic post and Brands will happy
probably pay a few thousand dollars for
that post Alone
um so it's a funny old game and it all
comes back to dark social because the
impact of these can rarely be directly
attributed
um it's usually going to be for
companies that have got a fair bit of
cash to Splash out on brand and aren't
necessarily wanting direct demo requests
off the back of it but are happy just to
build up that brand reputation build up
that affinity and also get that
influence of talking about their their
product because they know they have
clout in their icps space
so my question is what stage should a
company be at when they're looking to
either hire a B2B evangelist or to get
an external one maybe for some paid paid
work what do you think
um
yeah and I'll
it's a good two-part question I'll
answer the second part in that I think a
lot of people
either confuse or or um use influencer
and evangelism together to me I think
the influencer piece falls under the
evangelism umbrella so I'll give you
like um even in terms of how I pitch
this role there's really five buckets of
evangelism and maybe there's a six that
I'm forgetting but the first was like
myself okay so if I'm the Evangelist
what is it that I'm talking about am I
coming on to shows like you're a Sam
where we can talk a little bit more
about that
um being a key representation across
communities
then I think there's
um in terms of the question you asked
when they should start it
the the second bucket I pitched to our
Founders was founder evangelism and I
thought they had such a unique brand for
those that don't know their their
husband and wife so very rarely do you
see a spouse
um spouses create a company together and
and one that's very successful
um so that's another piece that I think
could get started early on and I've
actually seen Founders talk about how
once they get on let's say LinkedIn or
Twitter and really sharing their story
they're like oh my gosh if there's one
thing I wish I could have done earlier
is this because the reaches is insane so
that's the second bucket then there's
like partner evangelism which I would
kind of put community in as well maybe
people that you work with those are the
influencers
um bucket four is your customer
evangelism right so how are you putting
them on stage whether it's creating
content maybe getting them involved in
deals
and then the fifth one that I haven't
really got off the ground yet but I
would love to
um I label it as like many evangelists
so people throughout the company how do
you give them the tools in order for
them to maybe share their stories or
them to get a little bit more active on
LinkedIn
um or wherever your buyers happen to be
because
to me that's where people are are
consuming content natively through the
social media platform and if they're
logging in Daily how do you create that
distribution effect where it's not just
one person or your Founders talking
about it it's your entire company
actually talking about maybe your
strategic narrative or things that
you're working on or getting people
getting to share things that they're
trying out in their roles
um to educate maybe other people that
are in similar positions so yeah those
are kind of the five buckets that I I
place evangelism in to answer your
question I think like founder of lead
evangelism that can start from the
get-go
um
if you're trying to match up to where
buyers are at today like yeah I think
you could probably start earlier rather
than later if if your buyers are kind of
logging in Daily onto LinkedIn and
trying to get educated and hear from
other peers I don't think you
necessarily have to wait
um any to to your certain point as a
company I think you can start getting
involved in that community and getting
your message spread across to people
that are looking to consume content yeah
yeah it's Sound Advice especially if
your Founders are willing to share their
story and are willing to open up on what
their house their whys and at the same
time who's better to educate the market
on on the problem you solve how you make
people's lives better the advantages the
industry the niche you're in and the
people that made that decided they
invented the offer like who can be
better
um agreed now the reason I ask you that
question
was tax having a hard time right now
especially B2B Tech a lot of layoffs a
lot of uh a lot of number crashes and
with people cutting ad spend left right
and Center
evangelists still a smart move when you
could perhaps ship the money into paid
search or elsewhere that might guarantee
a certain amount back when it comes to
demo requests or inbound Revenue
yeah I mean I'm I'm obviously biased
being one of those so hopefully my
company's not being like ah maybe we
could shift some of that that money that
we're paying Arthur um no but I think
here's what I'll say
um and and part of the reason where I'm
also now doing more on the customer
marketing side here at chili Piper is
based on where Tech is at and the
macroeconomic conditions the slice of
net new pie of people actively buying of
having budget of exploring
um new technologies or Services is
getting smaller and
I think we're even seeing a shift on on
our paid side to more customer marketing
right the cross-sell
um across different products expansion
use cases maybe getting different
departments aware of hey by the way your
marketing team already uses us
um have you given any thought of like
your CS or sales team using us as well
so
I think it's a smart move in that if you
know that there's less people in Market
um and you're going to get less net new
Revenue how do you go back to kind of
generating and creating demand
and being top of mind giving people an
understanding of maybe why the status
quo isn't good enough so that once all
of a sudden
businesses are now back in the buy now
mode you're going to be top of mind for
them so I think it is more about the the
educational piece and yeah being in the
mind space of where your buyers are at
today versus trying to convert them
right away and I think an evangelist is
evangelism program is a good way to to
go about doing that
do you think companies underestimate how
important being top of your buyer's mind
is
oh for sure and I think that's kind of
what got Tech in this place uh Tech in
this here in the first place right where
it's like growth at all costs net knew
who are we coming in we're maybe not
putting as much of a focus on our
customers and now all of a sudden where
everybody's freezing their their buying
or budgets are being slashed now it's
like oh yeah remember our customers the
ones that have been faithful to us now
let's turn to them and see how we can
get them to use more of our products so
absolutely I think it's been way too
over indexed on growth at all costs and
net new Revenue where now we're forced
to kind of take a look in the mirror and
say okay if that lever can't be pulled
on anymore what other levers can we pull
on yeah yeah I'll share a very quick
story
um yeah so top of Mind wise so this this
podcast uh our YouTube channel is smooth
right it's just under 1K Subs at the
time of recording
um so we never get that many views on
videos maybe Max will get a few thousand
per per the video we repurposed after
the life and then we put it on the audio
podcast as well but back to the YouTube
so we had an inbound inquiry for web
choice I think it was yesterday and this
guy that came in had literally been
watching our videos for probably years
um and we've been going three years so
this is like a die-hard fan
um and I said I literally asked him like
there's so many webinar SEO agencies out
there like why us
um he said well you're consistent you
stick at what you said you do you keep
doing it
um you don't get tons and tons of views
but you're niched into what you do so
you're at the top of my mind because I
needed in our case website an SEO
um so that's what I want to use you like
I've got a decent budget let's do it
like it was lit he'd literally brought
in because he'd followed us for so long
and we were the only choice in his mind
um so for anyone doubting like this this
kind of mindset it does work but you
very much have to see it through
um it's very much a long term game but
it can be impactful and the good thing
about a lot of what you've talked about
Arthur is when you're producing
especially when you're producing content
with your buyers and content answers
kind of Ideal client questions addresses
problems if you're repackaging that on
channels like YouTube
that is literally the second biggest
search engine after Google is searchable
so that Evergreen bang for buck the fact
that it's searchable for years to come
can serve so well for your business on
top of all these other advantages that
we've talked about
um so it's just something to
an interesting point to bear in mind for
anyone that's on the fence about some of
this stuff it's such a great a great
example Sam I think also like part of
the reason I I kind of wanted to switch
over from sales to marketing is that
on average what do they say like one to
three percent of if your target market
is in buy now mode what about the other
97 to 99 it seems like everybody's
fighting over the one to three percent
right so how are we creating demand
staying top of mind for that other 97 to
99 which is a way bigger slice of the
pie and I think your example is perfect
sure it's been three years
um that you've produced this and that
was one single buyer but as you take
this approach buyers decide as to when
they're going to enter that buy now mode
right and if you're staying top of mind
I'm sure you have tons of examples of
like maybe you started six months out a
year two years but you're creating
opportunities for buyers to then reach
out to you and say hey I finally got
budget or hey you finally convinced me
that the status quo is no longer good
enough and I'm gonna need to invest in
in some of your services to keep up so
yeah I think it's such a good point of
like we often really are only catering
to the one to three percent and buy now
mode but how are we catering to the 97
to 99 percent of people that aren't
necessarily looking for a solution right
now for sure so wrap up Arthur you
mentioned it just now many evangelists I
like the term
um in my head I just think baby a little
Avengers but obviously we're not talking
about that
um so I think it's a tough one because
if you can get all your employees in
your organization like posting on social
that alone is amazing then if you can
even put get them to put something
that's slightly relevant to the niche
the industry that's going to add value
around the problem you solve the
audience you serve customer success
stories Etc that's massively value
valuable to your organization
um I know it's a fair few of the chili
Piper team are doing this but is there I
know a lot of companies struggle with it
some companies try and incentivize their
staff any ways that you've any best
practices or any examples that you've
tried to implement that have encouraged
your team to start posting on social
um yeah I think the the first example is
um we actually aim to do this every
Thursday is a social takeover and we'll
have a certain maybe theme or content
piece that we're trying to push and we
actually create a bunch of different
posts for our employees to use either as
inspiration or in some cases they can
just copy and paste and post it
themselves
um I think the key with that is there's
quite a few many so there might be like
10 to 12 different iterations of the
specific post so it's not necessarily
the same message but even for myself I
use it kind of as a as a baseline
um one of the sayings that I love to
live by is you can't edit a blank page
so even having a starting point and
knowing what good looks like and using
that to now craft my own thoughts is
very helpful for me in terms of joining
in so I think like
there's different approaches in which
you can take whether it's giving your
employees a starting ground and saying
hey this is what good looks like giving
them some options to just copy and paste
um if they don't necessarily want to
write anything on their own and then I
think it's
um
really this is probably with with any
department but trying to identify those
that are really wanting to lean into it
and almost them being like your your
team leads or your mini evangelist leads
of
having them go through and then sharing
the results with their peers of being
like hey guess what I just booked three
LinkedIn demos and people being like how
the hell did you do that well I actually
started posting on LinkedIn or I engaged
with
um I think another thing that I'll add
rather than trying to think of a post
yourself a good level one play is just
engage with other people's content right
comment on it there's different levels
of comments of like you can just quote
people and say hey this really resonated
you can share a story
um you can talk to them about your
experience with it so I think that's a
way better place to start with than
putting the pressure on your employees
to say hey start posting just taken 30
minutes an hour every day and start
engaging with your buyer's posts whether
they use it through sales nav and
that's honestly how I got started I got
built up a little bit of confidence but
you also build up a little bit of a
tribe so that once you do go out and
start posting your tribe is going to
support you because you've uh you've
supported and you've reciprocated for so
long that they're like hey okay let's uh
let's support Arthur as say I'm on their
Journey as they start to to share their
thoughts more so
yeah I guess there's a couple tips there
you can like copy set up some prompts
um whether it Inspire employees you can
set up some different iterations of
posts that they can just copy and paste
but I think one of the the best ones is
just to start off in commenting on other
people like Flex that muscle work that
muscle a little bit more until you get
the confidence to start uh posting
yourself
tips appreciate it Arthur enjoyed the
conversation sir it's been a it's been a
good back and forth hope hope you didn't
find it too challenging when I pressed
you a bit on the roll but I I always
enjoyed to Bantam I guess so hopefully
it was well received but with that I
appreciate you coming on please do share
more about how everyone tuning in can
learn more about chili Piper yourself
and any anywhere else you'd like to send
the audience to
yeah absolutely
um you're a great interviewer Sam so
this is uh it's been a pleasure I
definitely appreciate the banter and the
pressure
um
in terms of yeah I I think I'm probably
on LinkedIn the most so definitely feel
free to connect with me on LinkedIn and
if you're intrigued about this whole
evangelism thing or maybe how to start
it at your company I just posted um in
our chat I don't know if the the people
can see it there but me and Nick Bennett
actually have a newsletter called the
marketing evangelist where we actually
talk about tactical tips and what we've
done and give people examples of how
they can launch level one plays in terms
of their evangelism programs and ways to
put your customers up on stage as well
so definitely check that out
awesome cool man and we'll make sure to
put all of those links over on the show
notes at businessgrowth dot marketing
and with that thanks once again Arthur
enjoyed the chat thank you Sam it's been
a pleasure no worries dude and as always
if you enjoyed today's episode a quick
rating or review on Apple or Spotify is
appreciated or if you're on YouTube hit
that sub button it goes a long way and
we'll catch you on the next one for more
no BS actionable B2B marketing tips to
grow your business grow your Revenue see
you soon